more than 400 Palestinians have been
killed during the 9-day period while the
polio vaccination campaign was underway
in Gaza this month thousands more have
been injured and had to depend for their
Care on gaza's Health Care System that's
nearly collapsed the Palestinian Health
Ministry says it has documented more
than 270 attacks on medical facilities
across Gaza since the War Began and says
Israeli forces have killed at least 885
healthcare workers and injured more than
900 34 out of 30 5 hospitals across the
strip have been damaged along with about
ambulances we're joining us now to talk
about the state of medical facilities in
Gaza is Dr Victoria ason she's a surgeon
volunteering with the charity group
Humanity auxilium uh welcome to Al jazer
so as imagine there you're volunteer
surgeon in the time that you have been
there how would you describe the
injuries you and other doctors have had
to deal with
uh you know we've seen explosive
injuries pretty much every day since I
started at the beginning of September um
in addition to the explosive injuries
we've seen a lot of wound care um the
problem is that when patients have an
explosive injury it's not just a one day
treat it and they're better they require
often times months of post-operative
wound care so there's been a lot of that
management as well um we talked at
length just before we came to you about
the extraordinary pressure that
hospitals and indeed hospitals staff
under right now what are you seeing and
hearing in that
regard I mean the the staff in these
hospitals are incredible um they've been
working non-stop for a year now they're
they're frankly exhausted um and they're
working with really minimal resources um
every day that the conflict goes on
there are fewer and fewer disposables
and essential medicines um so they're
working really with with bare bone
supplies right now I understand a lack
of fuel remains a big issue also I
gather two hospitals at least in
Northern Gaza the Kamal adwan hospital
and the Indonesian Hospital were facing
the risk of closure precisely because
they were simply running out of power I
mean are there any contingency plans in
place to make sure for instance
critically in injured patients continue
to get health care in those kind of
scenarios um I I don't know of any
contingency plan specifically in place
here I do know that fuel is a big
problem at all oxa as well they're been
several times in the middle of
operations that we've actually had to
continue using someone's cell phone
flashlight and also this major polio
vaccination drive that's been underway
in central Gaza Southern Gaza and also
in the north how are how much are you
aware of the effectiveness of that
vaccination Drive given that there were
eyewitness accounts of people being
targeted on the way to vaccination
centers um I know know that there were
um there was evidence of people being
targeted um while they were trying to
obtain vaccines but despite that the
vaccine campaign has actually been a
huge success um they they matched the
numbers that they expected and I think
you know the who is really pleased with
the outcome of the first campaign um and
they're planning a second campaign in
October so I think that's kind of a a
bright light in all of this uh and of
course given that bright light there are
still concerns about the spread of
disease without sanitation being back to
what it was before uh the most recent
conflict I mean what hope is there about
being able to contain
illnesses you know I I think at this
point the idea of being able to contain
illnesses is kind of a kind of a dream I
think we're just trying to make it dayto
day um without functional Su uh sewage
systems without uh clean water available
to displac people there's no way that
we're going to be able to contain the
outbreak of infectious
diseases okay Dr Victoria Aon uh
volunteer surgeon uh working with the
charity group Humanity auxilium good to
speak to you and very best to you and
your team
there make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer